dans,ita_afrimi
Dan Shumayev 207050691, Afrimi itamar 209499664

FILES:
README
Makefile
container.cpp - Implementation of a variation of container.
utilities.h - Miscellaneous helper functions for the socket and container.
socket.h - Wrapper class for a socket file descriptor.
server.h - Wrapper class for a server, listening to TCP-packets on the first
            localhost's interface, tracking its clients' sockets.
command.h - Wrapper class for a client/server command, to be parsed respectively,
                such that for a server's command, it'll turn a server on, and for a client's
                command, it'll connect him to the requested server.
sockets.cpp - Driver of sockets part, taken place by employing the command wrapper.


Remarks:
The code is well-documented.


Theoretical part - Q&A:

1. Q: Describe one general use of Linux pid namespaces.
   A: PID namespaces isolate the process ID number space,
      meaning that processes in different PID namespaces can have the same PID.
      Possible use of this namespace is like that of `Docker` - it provides one with the
      ability to define a "close-space" to a collection of processes and their dependencies,
      such that they have the illusion of a self-contained, isolated system.
      This way, each collection can perform its job without intervening with other applications
      and dependencies on the same original system.

2. Q: How can Linux mount namespaces be used to help isolate a process?
   A: Linux mount allows each of the processes to have a different view
      of the system from the original one. This can be done by mounting a new
      root directory for the process, and mounting a new proc pseudo-filesystem for him,
      so that it's able see only itself and its own spawned processes.

3. Q: Describe one general use of Linux Cgroups.
   A: Linux Cgroups defines the capabilities given to a process/entire namespace:
      Max CPU usage; Max processes spawn, Max memory usage, etc.

4. Q: Explain the use of the clone command, and how it is different from the fork command
   A: `clone` command creates new process with specific set of attributes such
      as namespaces. The difference between these commands is that clone
      is an enhancement added to `fork` because its create child process and gives
      more precise control on the data shared between process and its child.

5. Q: What does the chroot command do?
   A: `chroot` command is changing the root directory path to given path, for
      current running process as well as for its children's ones.

6. Q: What is the purpose of procfs? Give an example of its use.
   A: The /proc pseudo-filesystem is used to trace the system's running processes.
      For example, the kernel uses it for performing various system calls,
      to receive signals and errors, driven by processes.
      An example of its uses is to obtain info about the running processes, their state,
      their total running time, their process ids, etc. It can help the kernel to make decisions
      like scheduling.